Steve banner needs no no introduction
Navy man student of history
controversialist and it's almost a year
to the day since we first met when I
turned up in Washington at the White
House nobody knew who I was because
there was no reference to me in the
system and I literally just walked away
I went to a restaurant for now and then
four hours later interviewing the
president seen the Vice President and
and then we met in your war room I mean
you're still in touch with the president
is it still as chaotic as that well that
was ordered chaos we want to see how
much you really want it now I think it's
one of the best interviews the President
had the Financial Times interview was
fantastic but you got a full day now the
flattery is gonna get you nowhere I know
that I've dealt with you before um no I
think Reince had a different you know
the President and I think the president
little bits going back to that tower
yeah I think I think very no process no
it's not no process he he manages in a
different way
he processes information in a different
way and I think you saw at that time
Ryan says style was a little more like
President Trump was used to in Trump
Tower general Kelley came in it was
completely different very ordered very
structured I think we've seen a reaction
to that and I believe that you're gonna
see the president in much more directly
in contact with with staff people I've
actually argued that if general Kelley
at any time does decide to leave the
president decides it's time for him to
move on I don't believe there'll be
another chief of staff I think they'll
be direct I think there'll be five or
six direct reports like there wasn't
Trump Tower I think the president is a
very hands-on manager and he feels more
comfortable with that I think the
structure and process that general Kelly
put in it was probably too much and so I
think you saw that day kind of a middle
ground but by the way you saw the Vice
President the chief of staff you
interviewed the president I states in
the Oval and you got to see the war room
with all the the to-do lists I did do
you miss the proximity to power
no I didn't didn't enjoy it every time
not a staffer
so it's not just coming back to the
president for a moment I mean do you
think the scariest thing is that he
actually now thinks he's really good at
this
well I think he is really good at this I
think he's done a fantastic job and I
think he's got natural instincts I know
it's you know it's still triggers the
the left the Democratic Party in the
opposition party media still triggers
people that he won he's president
knighted States but he is president
estates he won a resounding victory he
won it the old-fashioned way by getting
out on the hustings and in convincing
the people he's the greatest orator I
think we've had since William Jennings
Bryan and I think it was his speeches
that galvanized that galvanize people
and so I think he wanted and I think the
other day you saw Hillary Clinton still
doesn't get it where she sits there in
trashes the deplorable is again yeah
let's leave mrs. Clinton out of it for
the moment now just to be clear every
but I should have said this at the
outset because your conversation with me
has aroused some controversy mr. bannon
is not being paid for this interview
there was no deal no under the table
nothing I didn't get a discount on my ft
subscription
it's a premium product can we just get
out now
you've just come back from Europe and
I've been doing a little bit of research
and I don't just mean by reading page by
page fire and fury by the way do you
aggress being the primary source for
that book no you know if you look at
Jennifer Jacobs in Bloomberg did a very
detailed analysis that book was
authorized
I mean her but her article in Bloomberg
showed that Hope Hicks and the president
authorized the book on the hundredth
anniversary anniversary c-span had an
entire day of the first hundred days of
Trump's presidency Wolfe was on the sofa
with Kellyanne Conway I think he
actually referred to her referred to her
as his Sherpa right they had access to
15 staffers I haven't seen anybody
refute anything that was said in the
book well I haven't read the book but no
I don't regret it is what it is let's
let's get back to that European tour
that you've just been doing there's an
article an interview which you gave to
Nicolas Farrell in The Spectator
magazine in which you say that you are
quotes fascinated fascinated by
Mussolini you refer to his virility also
his amazing fashion fashion sense are
you just trying to wind us up or or or
do you actually really believe that
Mussolini who was an anti-semite who
brought chaos in his country disastrous
invasions I mean what did I say he was a
good guy in there they say who was it
say who's a positive I said he's a guy's
guy that means really good guy no no no
I said he's a fascinating historical
figure I think it's one of the problems
with political correctness
if you can't study these historical
figures and see why they motivated
people in time and what and how they
spoke to people and how they motivated
people you're never going to be able to
understand that and to avoid it in the
future
I think he's a fascinating historical
figure well and I've and I and one of
the reasons I said that is is the the
guy that did the interview wrote I
thought one of the best biographies of
of moose
besides Dennis was a Dennis Mac Smiths
Dennis Mac Smith you Dennis Mac Smith
wrote the other definitive biography to
this guy Lawler I think wrote the the
counter biography to that I thought I
think he's a fascinating figure and I
thought he did a great job of writing
the book and of course that's one of the
problems we have today if you say
something like that in a two-hour
interview it's brought up and everybody
get everybody because you are students
of history and therefore you would be
familiar with the private correspondence
between Mussolini and his longtime lover
by the way he he had five children by
his long-suffering wife and nine
children by his eight other lovers now
did throw ility in their daily in in in
the in the price that in the private
correspondence between was Cellini and
his lover he described Jews as pigs
people destined to be my point is the
point is the point is the point here to
say no it's the point here to say
Mussolini's not a good guy Mussolini's
not by the way he's a very evil guy
doesn't mean he's not fascinating but
this is the this is the problem we have
if you say the guy's fascinating and
he's worthy of study because he is
worthy of study particularly in today's
environment right all of a sudden oh
he's anti-semitic yes he was
anti-semitic he was a terrible guy and
he led his country to the verge of
destruction if it wasn't for the
deplorable --zz you know kids from
Kansas and in in Wisconsin except her
that went over and freed the Italian
people so I didn't say it was a good guy
I said he's a fascinating guy and even
though he said all that stuff he's still
fascinating right let's move on to the
important speech that you gave in Zurich
which talked about the new serfdom and
you say here that the biggest danger we
have is state capitalism these companies
technology companies that debase the
currency debates your citizenship and
take your personhood digitally what did
you mean by that and I especially
bearing in mind the fact that you've
done rather well outs of digital
technology I think this is very
important I think the three converging
forces and we'll get into Cambridge
analytic I'm sure in a second way well
I'm sure we will
what I said in Zurich and what I said in
to the front Nationale people the centre
of my discussion the reason I went to
Zurich Zurich is the is the centre of
the Silicon Valley of cryptocurrency you
have three converging forces right now I
believe in the world number one is this
center-right populist nationalist
movement that is politically driven and
it's driven a lot by social media on the
second you have this crypto currency or
blockchain in the third you have this
concept of digital sovereignty okay the
taking of your of your intellectual
property assets and they're all
converging I think to empower empower
this movement central government's
debase your citizenship central bank's
to base your currency in the central
technocratic state capitalism we have
with Google and Facebook take your
personhood and basically take away your
intellectual property your digital
sovereignty and so and by the way I'm
glad this amazing paper the Financial
Times today in it did not get paid for
that which the Financial Times never
agree with in I think today it's lead
editorial digital privacy rights
required data ownership now they didn't
give me a shout out for Zurich and four
for four but they agree it the future by
the way right now you're serfs okay
you're well paid serfs but you're serfs
they've to base your currency and so
you're continuing the underwrite debt
right for sovereign governments at zero
interest rates so you're always on the
spinning wheel like a little hamster
trying to get ahead because they've
destroyed the ability of threat of
thrift of you to save to get ahead the
same thing on digital current on your
digital assets your intellectual
property they take it all for free
so when Zuckerberg goes on TV yesterday
Zuckerberg gives the New York Times a an
interview in the opposition party media
plays pattycake with him it doesn't ask
him one tough question okay his entire
business model is made upon taking that
data for free in monetizing it and then
writing algorithms behind a wall that
treats you like hamsters on a wheel well
that's a business or business mom I'm so
glad you've raised
because as you know you were an investor
in Cambridge analytical I help at
Hamburg and yes you did and gave it and
gave it that amazing name yeah what a
stroke of genius
a stroke of genius no because just
branding it I mean it's actually empty
shell it's branding what was the guy
like Alexander nicks I'd rather not
comment on earnest otoni an older tone
Ian I'll chose about the education
system among the elites in England but
by the way let's talk let's talk about
Cambridge analytic over say in the data
the data is just a cause the data from
Facebook is just about the cost of it
that debt is out there's a marketplace
for your data it's bought and sold every
day yeah but the people know it was
being late that's right that's the
difference that's the issue between
Cambridge the professor and Facebook and
by the way there's an open we were you
aware of that didn't even know but
didn't even know about the Facebook I'm
lining but hang up the point is that is
Facebook's business in 2008 it was
Google and Facebook that went to Barack
Obama and met him in San Francisco
Airport and told him all about the power
of this personal data in 2012 and we
have the we have the woman who headed up
data integrity said hey Facebook gave us
the information because they were
quote-unquote on our side so the great
opposition party media never went after
the Obama campaign never went after the
progressive left has it been doing this
for years and in 2013 when I thought a
data company might be important all
sudden becomes global news and by the
way the information out there the
information for the Facebook thing it's
just about the cost of it what did the
guy pay $1 you got to pay you know two
or three dollars for it's just a cost
thing that dad is all out there and
that's and that's how Facebook that's
what they take your stuff for free they
they sell it and monetize it for huge
margins that's where the companies trade
for such high valuations then they write
algorithms and control your life and yet
when Zuckerberg comes he sounds like a a
first-year associate hired in corporate
development mumbles through the whole
interview and nobody asking him is a
tough following question right let's
just go back to that wonderfully named
Cambridge analytical yep you will be no
like a dog with a bone in its nature
it's a tasty bone though there's a lot
of joy still still a lot of meat left my
phone yeah so let's just just pick it up
pick it apart here because the mr. Nix
he didn't just boast about the date he
had he boasts about the dirty tricks
that's awkward
okay that's another Jim that's uh that's
SEO there so that's his company run by
Brits Oh old Etonians with Robert
Mercer's investment absolutely not
there's not a penny of Roberts money si
oh no way SEL is a separate company it's
their company that does stuff throughout
the world so you're right all staffed by
British guys from Cambridge and Oxford
not all the onions and not all old
Etonians but whatever they do in the
world is not it all Cambridge analytic
is the data scientist in the applied
applications here in the United States
it has nothing to do with the
International stuff
The Guardian actually tells you that and
the observer tell you that when you get
down to the tenth paragraph okay when
you get down to the tenth paragraph and
what nicks does overseas is what nicks
does overseas right it was a data it was
a data company by the way Cruz's
campaign and that Trump campaigns say
hey they were a pretty good data company
but this whole thing on psychographics
was optionality in the deal if it ever
worked it worked but it hasn't worked it
doesn't look like it's gonna work so so
it was never even applied here's the
point the progressive left and the
opposition party cannot get over one
basic fact Donald J Trump is Prezi nine
states and he beat Hillary Clinton beat
her badly first you had to run to Russia
okay
now Russia didn't work out how do we
know Russia didn't work out because the
House report shows you that muscle
inclusion in Muellers and vest Mo's
investigation shows you he's looking at
either trump organization financials or
he's looking at and he's looking at
obstruction of justice
my point is you struck out you struck
you out on Russia and now you've got to
go to Cambridge analytic oh that's what
wonderful here's what want it for you
here's what wanted for Trump economic
nationalism and talking in a plain voice
to the American people okay I think I've
heard that record before but
just just let's have a quick answer here
didn't you believe that Donald Trump
should shake up and say his legal team
I've said that from day one I've said
been public things I've joan downs well
he got fired I mean they brought in
Geneva to be much more aggressive and I
think to look I think it's pretty
obvious that that Ty Cobb in in John Dow
did a very rare okay let's do stuff back
why did I get lit up on Capitol Hill by
the house Intel committee because the
White House dom again exerted executive
privilege over any questions about the
transition or the White House I answered
every question on the campaign about
Russian collusion okay shifting these
guys heads are blowing up today he's
gonna subpoena me again because of the
transition in the White House because
Don McGann exerted executive privilege
Ty Cobb and John Dowd had a radical
theory let's totally cooperate and waive
executive privilege okay I have said as
I told the president and told everybody
and I told brother doubt I think that's
wrong there is a process there's a
process that Reagan used as a process
that Clinton used as a process of bush
used and I think your to go through that
process right and that's why by the way
John Dowd is a good man and I think
that's why essentially more aggressive
attorneys got brought in that are now
you know I think president Trump's going
to war I think it's very obvious he's
gonna go to Warren this right now let's
just talk history for a moment you're a
student of ancient Rome more Plutarch
compared to me Tacitus would you if you
think about it would you describe Donald
Trump as the new American Caesar no not
at all I think he's one of the Gracchi
I've said he's like Tiberius Crockett
he's he's a populist he's anything but a
dictator he's a populist he's brought
more people into this process of
governing he's very prudent when he said
when he talked about a dictator how
could a dictator take nine months to
make the decision he made on Afghanistan
how could a dictator you you guys broke
a story you know why I came up with that
analogy because Donald Trump wanted this
was the moment he wanted and once the
military parade and the moment for
Caesar when he crossed the Rubicon was
when he brought the Roman soldiers into
the Capitol that's the analogy Wow
you're working that one no I think I
think he's convincing I think he's no I
think he wants he look he's a patriot he
wanted France because he went to France
and I think he was very he serve in
Vietnam McCrone serving in a the French
no but I think he was inspired by what
he saw on Bastille Day it's a very
inspiring thing we see all these
military units what migrates bigger than
your parade no but I do I do think I I
think it's great for American patriot
it's gonna be a Veterans Day I think it
gives the veterans something to parade
anything as when we truly think it's
appropriate to have tanks rolling past
the Capitol well they're not gonna have
tanks but just by the way I think it's
fine heavy tanks co-parents the Capitol
remember after you won the Civil War we
had a parade for two days the Grand Army
of the Republic came for two days to the
Capitol what's wrong with having our
military go through the Capitol we're
proud of our veterans were proud of our
armed services this is the kind of
reaction this is the kind of reaction
that just makes the deplorable --zz
angry and angry because they think the
global elite in the propaganda arm for
the global elite the paper of the Pope
at the Financial Times it's a way that
you go after you go after Trump on
something's trying to do was wrong they
think of Harry Truman who fought Douglas
MacArthur that's what they think
well President Roh by the way President
Trump I think has done a fantastic job
in in in with his generals I think
President Trump has has he's taken he's
taken look at you guys broke the story
on Korea the very first time the
president Trump ever really talked about
Korea was in the Financial Times
interview you guys did a year ago right
and look at the movement that he's made
on the Korean situation and I don't
totally agree with everything that's
happened there but he's done a fantastic
job look in Afghanistan he's the least
trigger-happy
you know president we've had in a long
time in the opposition media right in
the entire time in the run-up
to this campaign about what a madman he
was how he's unstable he was
unacceptable to be commander-in-chief in
fact I think 80% of the Republicans
involved in the national security
apparatus would sign full-page ads in
The Wall Street Journal is saying how
unacceptable yes yet he's been
incredibly prude and the reason is he
respects the combatant commanders he
respects general mattis he listens
information and he's not quick on the
trigger and I think it galls me that
somebody like Jeff Zucker can walk in
here and sit here and say that Fox News
is a propaganda channel I'm not here to
defend the Murdochs they're big boys
they can defend themselves but you can't
name a more propaganda outfit than CNN
did anybody at CNN did any editor any
news person any anchor anybody get fired
for the awful mess they made of the 2016
campaign which was a disgrace to
journalism no he is a that is a
propaganda outfit every night it's hate
Trump and I understand from a business
model you want people to hate Trump
crowd to rally around that but to come
in here and say that another network is
propaganda is absolutely totally absurd
and he's not and by the way is anybody
in the opposition media question him
were going after him about that no they
cheer him on so let's talk about
propaganda outlets Breitbart news what's
gone what's gone wrong the chief
propagandist no look it's a it's a it's
a it's a it's a it's a very difficult
time to thinking in all conservative
media particularly about how you going
to pay for things right obviously
advertising after we won right when I
left the traffic was on fire we had
costs under control all the advertisers
there after after we won you know all
sudden people woke up it had to be the
Russians or had to be Breitbart
right it had to be some reason besides
you were just rejected by the American
people so Breitbart became their oldest
is hogged the audience's is down I think
look I think that's I think that's
enough doubt and it solved I think
that's the difference between just being
just doing aggregation and luck I had a
theory you got a break news you got a
make news right that's what people come
for you have to have a sense of urgency
you have to have a sense of urgency yeah
and
people and people have to feel that they
need this information the site's a
little more aggregation today I think
the guys have a different strategy the
people that's my team list they haven't
got a political brain like you working
it I mean a proper real propaganda I
mean they're doing news maybe you know
you say propaganda right today's
environment there's no that the
even-handed sources is a thing of myth
the editorial page of the Financial
Times is on the front page right it's on
the front page just like it is the Wall
Street Journal in the New York Times and
so when you get a small taste of your
own medicine
pristine of your own medicine right and
your support without fear and without
favor read you're not raised the first
thing I read every day yeah I read the
FT so why would you want to read
propaganda every day because I have to
know what the party Davos thinks it's
know they enemy
that's why I read propaganda every day I
just like to point out on the record
that I haven't been to Davos for two
years because you understand which way
the wind was blowing the populist
nationalist are taking over what why did
President Trump go to see the gutless
globalists in Devils I think it was a I
think it was a terrific trip I think it
was a terrific idea I would have liked
the speech to been a little edgier I
think it was a little too rah-rah but
president Trump here's what I saw about
Davos they were they were they were like
ten-year-old kids they treat him like a
rock star this is the sophistication
that you see at Davos all the are at the
end of the day is a collection of
groupies they were running around trying
to get selfies with him it was
ridiculous embarrassing that is the
global technocratic manager elite yes
everyone's are saying those are sort of
weird satisfaction from seeing all these
billionaires yeah but in substantial
terms you know you must have been aching
in the gut well no I thought it was
great that he went I'd like I said I
would like the speech to have been a
little edgier it was not a sellout I
think he did a great job and given that
the tax deal had just gotten done he's
talking about American jobs he's
bringing jobs back to the deplorable zhh
the dinner the night before the CEOs I
think was terrific so I would have you
know been a little more like the
moneychangers in the temple but he
decided I think to have more of a
rah-rah speech
I think it played very well right so
let's go back to your favorite subject
which is a national populism you stood
alongside marine lepen of the fullness
you know and you said when they call you
racist wear it as a badge of honor what
do you mean there here's the thing and
this is a great thing about the
propaganda media if you look at that
speech I built that was just a question
no no no no no no no because this is the
headline CNN had two seconds after it I
built up to that well I mean when you
did say hang on because I talked about
what is economic nationalism that Donald
Trump won on doesn't care about your
race doesn't care about your color
doesn't care about your ethnicity
doesn't care about your gender doesn't
care about your religion doesn't care
about your sexual preference it cares
about one thing that you're a citizen of
the United States of America Donald
Trump and the reason that Clinton did
not have the big turnout among
working-level blacks or Hispanics Donald
Trump has done more for freedom an anti
racism in this country than anybody we
have the lowest unemployment of blacks
and in American history 17-year low in
Hispanic unemployment we have Y rising
wages now in construction agriculture
where you have a substantial black and
Hispanic working class he really worked
to have the repatriation of the of the
of the dot of the three trillion dollars
to be focused back on capital equipment
in those things Donald Trump has done
more for race relations through his
economic program than any president and
that's why I told these people I said
listen the identity politics what
Hillary Clinton came out the first week
I was announced as the campaign CEO he
said the race is you know white
supremacist and I sat down on the TVs
and I told the group right there I said
if she's gonna run on identity politics
and we run on economic nationalism this
was August 19th and we're down by 12
points we are going to beat her okay and
we did and that's the reason if they
call your races they have nothing else
to argue they will not and by the way
CNN never thought up the quote about
economic nationalism they never put up
the court about what Donald Trump's done
you know why they're gutless they're
absolutely gutless and they will not
debate the facts what they want to do is
put the headline down there bana says
races wear as a badge of honor
and get a panel up there of everybody
with their head blown up and that's why
they're a propaganda outfit just like
the New York Times now you're a student
of history not just Italian history but
also French history and therefore you
will be aware that marine lepen denies
that Jews were rounded up in 1940 at the
velodrome and sent east to their deaths
in the was she the runner-up in she did
say that okay she said that was she the
runner-up in the French election did
40-some percent of the people in France
vote for her
was I have to say those people are
perfect they're not perfect the
deplorable Czar not perfect I'm not
perfect I believe in the tenets of the
judeo-christian West that man has fallen
we're not perfect but those are
working-class people in France and by
the way there's they're there they
represent the second most perfect we're
not perfect but again as a student of
history doesn't it worry you when a
political leader seats two arrays a dog
chat certainly does sir and that's that
is I didn't said I supported everything
she said I went there for one reason I
didn't say a supporter Front National I
went there for reason to tell them
they're not alone that this
anti-establishment populist nationalist
movement as personified in Italy a
couple days before were two thirds of
the people voted anti-establishment is
on the rise it's on the move it's only
going to get stronger it's only going to
get more powerful there's only going to
be more anti-establishment the reason is
the party at davos is destroying your
citizenship that are basing your
currency and they're taking your data
sovereignty and as long as they continue
to do that people are going to rise up
against it and you can see you can see
it in the polls across europe and you
can certainly see it in italy where
they've had four government's forced on
them from the european central bank and
now you've got two-thirds of the people
both left and right they've had 54
governments or 55 since World War two I
mean in Italy
that's because of whistling that's
because of Mussolini they don't want a
powerful central government so if there
is this great tide of populism how come
that macro one in France because he's
like Obama he took he took the he's
nobody no Obama ran as a populist one
bomb it go back and look at how he ran
into that
hey Obama ran initially as an anti-war
populist McCrone kind of came in as a
bomb alike figure but micro stage the
greatest military parade that really the
president really liked him wants to
emulate
can you imagine Barack Obama holding a
military he's quite different and he's
he's he's taking on a lot of things of
France but look he ran a good race and
he beat them they lost they're not
you're not going to beat him soundly
you're not as I do as I tell people
you're not gonna win every fight you're
not gonna win every battle you're not
gonna win every election it's the trend
it's happy why why did you lose in
Alabama I mean we lost in Alabama we
lost we lost in Alabama very simply the
Republican establishment are the people
that came out with the pedophilia that
was Mitch McConnell and Tim Miller and
that crowd came out because they would
rather not be in a majority than have
guys like we're more worried more wasn't
my guy my guy was mo Brooks okay
my guy got blown out in the first round
but it was very important to keep
someone like Luther strange who is
epitome of the swamp in support the
Christian Right is what we did and by
the way was Luther strange we're 32
million dollars not beaten by the people
in Alabama by 10 points and Roy Moore
would have won if it was not for the
pedophilia thing that was put out by Tim
Miller in the Republican establishment
there's no truth in that don't reason
what in this story about by the way they
have plenty of time to adjudicate I
don't happen I've looked at it I've
looked at the evidence and don't think I
think it's totally trumped-up however
maybe not the right word I think that
they don't have plenty of time to
adjudicate that I believe the woman's
going forward and we'll find out let's
just step back for a moment Steve
bannon's career trajectory you have at
an extraordinary here into filmmaking
here in military service goldman sachs
then within a few meters
sorry yards of the Oval Office and and
now what next
have you not got some media venture well
I'm looking a lot of stuff I think for a
principle well it's a lot of people are
talking to me about different media
things there's lots of media companies
out there that either need capital need
to be up for sale so it's not that's a
very difficult time I think in news I
think it's a very tough time in media I
think particularly going forward it
shouldn't be lost in us we're having
this big debate about people's data and
information a lot of the companies today
depend upon the monetization of their
subscribers data to make a go of it is
we go off these legacy systems this pays
a lot of bills right is we go off that
system to a more digital system how you
actually pay for that and how you build
a community I think everything's about
attention and influence attention and
influence attention and influence how
you monetize that over time is tough
that's why a lot of people so I am
looking at media properties but I'm also
looking at building you know a digital
grassroots army here in the United
States to support the the populist
nationalist movement and to start to get
like a think-tank or something to start
to weaponize ideas we need to have more
well-defined economic it shouldn't be
lost in anybody the big thing we fought
for about China all the Hawks
you know we have the the sixty billion
dollars of terrorists but most
importantly not enough is it well it's
not enough but it's a 301 is very
important because that is about force
technology transfers that china demands
to take our high technology okay but
it's ironic that not in the program for
the deplorable z-- is this four point
three trillion dollar budget that's
going to have trillion-dollar deficits
as far as the eye can see and I think
it's quite ironic on the day that you
put up sixty billion dollars in tariffs
to your creditor because if the Chinese
are there they've got a finance you know
they're the people we go to the
financing or the bulk of the financing
of these deficits and so I think that
the permanent political class in
Washington DC has to start to rethink
this thing through because we're
hurtling towards a financial crisis in
the next couple years as night follows
day even with four percent growth I
think I think if you do the math even a
four percent growth I don't think he
gets you I don't think the deficits
get down you know demonstrable yeah four
and four percent growth I think you'd
actually have higher growth the growth
could be fine but doesn't mean you're
not still digging yourself the tax deal
was supposed to be have concomitant
budget cuts over it right not that the
permit focal class would have you know
1.3 trillion dollars of additional
spending and by the way to cut to the
heart of it the 780 billion dollars for
the military spending is because we have
it wreath
our obligations we're the underwriter
the guarantor of this liberal post-war
rules-based order that everybody loves
the party at davos loves it
they had she there when when Trump was
given the American Carnot speech she was
there they were all raving about him
right and we underwrite it the
deplorable is underwrite it with their
tax dollars and the deplorable is
underrated with their kids Europe
doesn't pull their weight NATO doesn't
pull their weight the Gulf doesn't pull
their weight the guys around the South
China Sea don't pull their weight in the
Northwest Pacific they don't pull their
weight if they want to be allies they
have to start to pull their weight the
United States cannot continue to
underwrite the rules-based international
order and that's that's how you have a
seven hundred eighty billion dollar
defense budget and that's how you end up
with trillion-dollar deficits as far as
the eye can see now we're running out of
time here but I wanted to ask you a
couple more questions just tell us
because you've spent a lot of time with
the president what is the conversation
gonna be like between president doll
chun and kim yong-hwan i don't think
it'll happen so i don't think there will
be conversation so i just don't think
that happen i mean the president of the
Mait said it was gonna happen well the
president may try to make it happen I
just think the logistics of how you do
it and where you do it
etc are quite tough it's quite difficult
I think the president's done very very
smartly put the pressure on China to
make sure they take care of this problem
I know he he has said that he wants to
meet with the dictator of North Korea I
just in my betting man I think the
over-and-under of that the reason you're
saying that is because you you basically
said there's nothing to be done they are
gonna be nuclear power and we've lost
and the president was furious about that
I don't actually think I said that I
said the solution to try there note that
we can denuclearize North Korea what I
say this is no bloody no G there's not a
military solution I was very specific
China is the key that picks a lock in
North Korea if you North Korea is a
creation its nuclear power its nuclear
program is a creation of China okay
they've used that to keep the Japan the
United States back on their heel the
solution to Korea goes through Beijing
and I've said that consistently as a
China Hawk from day one because it
happens
correct now the reason I don't happen to
think and the president's gonna try to
work them out I don't even know where
you'd meet I don't believe a president
United States would ever travel to the
DMZ to meet with they could have in
Moscow I just I just I just don't
believe that the dictator of North Korea
would ever leave his country man the
dictator of Moscow or the dictator North
Korea the dictator in North Korea right
was that trying to get the Russian this
is a that was a different the Russian
think that was Frank you guys are
obsessed with it okay Russia's economy
I'm no apologist I was I was on a
destroyer that job was mission was to
hunt Soviet submarines right
my daughter's a captain and wait no no
yeah the the big reveal of President
Reagan the reason that they put the plan
together destroy the Soviet Union as one
hit realized that the Soviet Union's
economy was the size of California then
he realized it's not some giant the
Russia's economy is a size in New York
State isn't a demographic death spiral
it can't create any technology lives off
natural resources are they bad guys
absolutely at a kleptocracy absolutely
but we've got we've got the greatest
enemy in the greatest power we've ever
had in our history in China the elites
led by the opposition party meeting that
never questioned them for 25 years have
accelerated and exacerbated their growth
they're now on the path to become a
hegemonic power if you don't believe
that listen the she's 19th Party
Congress speech and listen to that
speech last week that speech last week
was as nationalistic as anything he's
been going and now everybody's going oh
my gosh look at this this has been 25
years in the making in the elites in
this country and Peter Schweitzer's new
book secret empires talks about Mitch
McConnell and Joe Biden you know feeding
at the trough of Chinese influence
operations and nobody questions it do
you think we got you think we we got in
a situation with China just because it
happened it didn't happen the elites in
this country exacerbated their growth
okay
and that's why breaks it in 2016 are
inextricably linked and they're linked
because of China the exporting of
Chinese deflation and overcapacity
helped to gut the Midland heartland of
England in a gutted the Upper Midwest of
the United States
if you go ahead and give the speech of
workers the United States the Harvard
study shows us a direct correlation
between the factories that left the jobs
that left with them in the opioid crisis
the stuff just shouldn't happen this is
this is a an important insight but I'm
gonna leave you with one further
historical insight perhaps you've often
been described as an insurgent I can
imagine if you've been living in an
earlier age you would have been with
that group swarming into the white house
in 1828 with Andrew General Jackson
you'd certainly have been there but if
we go back to Mussolini Mussolini in one
of his last you're gonna make another
terrible off the moor analogy I've been
- go ahead research go ahead and and
have it I came across the let the love
letter that Mussolini wrote to his
longtime lover and he said the mother
has nine children
no there were eight lovers and nine
children right just get that right okay
he said virility goodbye darling if I
could blow up the world with dynamite
I'd do it do you sympathize with that
did I say he was a bad guy even even the
Financial Times you think you just do it
once a week I like to blow up things
don't you I think that institutions our
institutions have to be questioned and
have to be challenged not certain of
them yeah absolutely there's no doubt
there's no doubt positive note
Steve Bannon thank you very much thank
you